{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Bold;
\f6\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red25\green25\blue25;\red56\green101\blue115;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c12941\c12941\c12941;\cssrgb\c27451\c47059\c52549;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat2\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat4\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat5\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat6\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat7\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Add a challenge to the set.  There will be 2 set challenges. This will be the 2nd one.  The rest will be moved to a separate page called \'93other challenges\'94. \
\
This second challenge is called \'93This is not a drill.\'94 Create a page for it and Include a link to it in the overall workshop under the 2nd challenge. \
\
Here is intro text.  Use it mainly verbatim, but fact-check it and give me a proposed revision to approve or alter before you finalize and include it:\
\
<Start challenge text>\
A notice of major changes to NIH policy have just been published by the Office of Management and Budget.  The changes are described in the 108-page Federal Register, and would result in important changes to the grant-making process before and after the award of grants, which could have a profound impact on science in the U.S. and other countries to the degree to which they depend on NIH funding. \
\
The proposed changes are open for comment until July 13. The U.S. government is required to consider substantive comments. Your task is to use AI to help understand the proposed changes and craft a response. Some types of comments will have more impact than others. Write a comment that is designed to align with your values and be impactful, i.e., considered by OMB. AI can be helpful here, but you are the ones who must understand the issues at stake, and form an opinion. Here is a link:\
\
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/05/29/2026-10817/regulation-for-federal-financial-assistance#footnote-8-p32200\
\
Consider breaking down the task into components.\
\
Context:\
Why are these changes being proposed?\
Content:\
What are the most important changes?\
Impact: \
What will the impact be on science, scientists, and other stakeholders? e.g., study-section functioning, awards, recruitment, trainees, clinical trials, publication compliance, collaborations, indirect-cost administration, or institutional operations.\
Reponse:\
What kinds of comments is OMB obligated to consider? What will make a comment likely to be considered as a substantive comment?\
Action plan:\
How can you submit your comment?\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 <End challenge text>\
\
For each of the 5 sections above, include a \'93hints\'94 link to a separate page that has the info below pertaining to that section.  Include these below the instructions and say \'93click on these only if you need additional hints/info!\'94\
 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs42 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Comments are due 
\f3\b July 13, 2026
\f2\b0 . OMB proposes a final rule effective 
\f3\b October 1, 2026
\f2\b0 , so it would apply to FY2027 awards if finalized on that timeline. \
\
Changes:\

\fs56 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Uniform Guidance becomes regulation: 
\f4\b0 Centralizes power in OMB and makes future cross-agency grant-rule changes faster and more uniform. It reduces agency-specific procedural delay.\
\

\f1\b Senior-appointee pre-award review
\f4\b0 : Agencies must conduct pre-issuance review by senior appointees for discretionary awards to ensure consistency with law, agency priorities, Presidential priorities, and \'93national interest.\'94 It would make peer-review scores advisory and permit senior officials to block or redirect awards after scientific review.\
\

\f1\b Peer review explicitly advisory
\f4\b0 : Peer review is advisory in law, but NIH custom gives study sections and councils major practical weight. Could weaken the practical primacy of NIH peer review and increase programmatic/political discretion.\
\

\f1\b No obligation to fund after NOFO
\f4\b0 : Agencies would not be required to issue awards merely because a NOFO was posted, and may repost if proposals are judged low quality or inconsistent with the rule\'92s principles. NIH could cancel or rerun competitions even after applications are reviewed.\
\

\f5\b\fs36 Award termination for agency priorities / national interest
\f2\b0 : Allows termination if the agency decides termination is in the agency\'92s interest, including if the award no longer effectuates program goals, Federal agency priorities, or national interest.
\fs56 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\

\f5\b\fs34 Temporary suspension / stop-work authority.
\f2\b0  Could pause ongoing grants without a finding of misconduct, while the agency reassesses alignment or risk.\
\

\f5\b Discretionary termination notice and costs.  
\f2\b0 Institutions may need to account for unrecoverable commitments, personnel contracts, subawards, leases, and long-term infrastructure commitments.\
\

\f5\b Fixed-amount awards and subawards eliminated
\f2\b0 . Fixed-amount awards and fixed-amount subawards would be prohibited unless authorized by statute.\
\

\f5\b Research awards: domestic-first framework
\f2\b0 . R&D awards should generally be made to U.S.-organized entities. Foreign entities could receive R&D awards only if authorized by statute or justified by a compelling agency/U.S. interest. New \'a7 200.220 would bar federal funds from supporting collaborations with \'93covered foreign countries\'94 or \'93covered foreign entities,\'94 unless authorized or approved as not posing national-security risk and in the U.S. interest.\
\

\f5\b Risk review expanded.
\f2\b0   Risk review could include plagiarism, non-replicable studies, civil-rights/religious-liberty concerns, affiliations with organizations deemed to threaten public safety/national security, and foreign gift/contract reporting. Could make institutional history, controversies, public allegations, and compliance with foreign-reporting requirements part of award decisions.\
\

\f5\b DEI / DEIA restrictions.
\f2\b0  Awards could not fund, promote, encourage, subsidize, or facilitate DEI/DEIA practices that violate federal anti-discrimination law, including racial preferences or intentional proxies for race.\
\
Disparate-impact theory restriction. Potentially affects equity analytics, demographic disparity studies tied to federally funded activities, and compliance frameworks. \
\
Gender ideology and pediatric transition restrictions. would prohibit federal awards from funding, promoting, encouraging, subsidizing, or facilitating \'93gender ideology\'94 as defined by EO 14168, or transition of a child under 19 from one sex to another.\
\
Faith-based organization protections. New language would bar discrimination against or in favor of applicants based on religious character, affiliation, exercise, or lack thereof. Faith-based organizations must be considered on the same basis as other eligible applicants.\
\
Event-services viewpoint neutrality. Universities receiving federal grants could face grant-compliance consequences for viewpoint-discriminatory facility, security, or event policies.\
\
Mandatory E-Verify for award work. Recipients/subrecipients would have to use DHS E-Verify for employees and contractors hired in or performing work in the U.S. under a federal award. Significant administrative burden for universities and hospitals, especially for complex project staffing and contractors.\
\
Payment justification and Do Not Pay checks. Agencies must use Treasury Do Not Pay before disbursement. Payment requests from non-State recipients/subrecipients must include brief written justifications tied to award activities. Could add administrative burden to drawdowns and reimbursements, especially for large research portfolios.\
\
Performance reports must confirm subawards were reported to SAM.gov. Transfers to affiliates/subsidiaries/related entities must be classified as subawards or contracts, not internal transfers.\
\
Publication costs and conference attendance restricted. Publication costs would be unallowable unless required by statute or approved in advance by the agency case-by-case. Costs for attending conferences would be allowable only if expressly approved by the agency and included in award terms.\
\
Further limits on advertising/PR, voter-registration activities, issue advocacy/public messaging unrelated to award objectives, and influencing state executive-branch actions unrelated to the award.\
\
Domestic procurement preference broadened. Agencies must, where practicable and lawful, include terms maximizing use of U.S.-produced goods, products, and materials.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs42 \cf0 For NIH, the most consequential cluster is 
\f3\b \'a7 200.205 + \'a7 200.340 + \'a7 200.300/218/220
\f2\b0 : award decisions would become more explicitly subject to senior political review; scientific peer review would be formally subordinated to agency discretion; grants could be terminated or suspended for shifting agency/national-interest reasons; and several categories of research, training, institutional policy, international collaboration, publication, and conference costs would face new restrictions.\
\
The most comment-worthy provisions are likely: 
\f3\b pre-issuance senior appointee review; peer review as merely advisory; discretionary termination/suspension; publication/APC restrictions; conference restrictions; foreign collaboration restrictions; E-Verify; DEI/disparate-impact language; and the effect on NIH-funded research involving sex/gender, health disparities, global health, and international cohorts.\
\

\f2\b0 The rule does not say who qualifies as a senior appointee, what appointment type is required, whether the person must be Senate-confirmed, whether NIH Institute/Center leadership qualifies, whether HHS political leadership can substitute for NIH leadership, or what record must document the review.
\fs34 \

\fs42 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf0 Disparate impact
\f2\b0  means a policy can be considered discriminatory because it produces unequal outcomes across protected groups, even if the policy is facially neutral and there is no proven discriminatory intent. The proposed rule is hostile to that theory. It would say that federal awards should not be used to promote or support disparate-impact liability. In the operative proposed \'a7 200.218, agencies and pass-through entities would have to ensure that federal awards are not administered in a way that promotes or supports disparate-impact liability, including support for \'93disparate-impact studies.\'94\
\
Impactful responses:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \

\f2\fs42 A legally meaningful comment is not just a vote for or against. It should:
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\b\fs42 \cf0 {\listtext	1	}Identify the docket and section
\f2\b0 : e.g., \'93OMB-2026-0034, proposed \'a7 200.205,\'94 \'93\'a7 200.340 termination,\'94 \'93\'a7 200.461 publication costs,\'94 etc.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f3\b\fs42 \cf0 {\listtext	2	}Explain concrete impact
\f2\b0 : how the change would affect NIH peer review, study-section functioning, awards, recruitment, trainees, clinical trials, publication compliance, collaborations, indirect-cost administration, or institutional operations.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f3\b\fs42 \cf0 {\listtext	3	}Provide evidence
\f2\b0 : data, examples from NIH grant administration, peer-review experience, institutional cost estimates, timelines, or published literature.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f3\b\fs42 \cf0 {\listtext	4	}Address the agency\'92s stated rationale
\f2\b0 : explain why the proposal does or does not improve accountability, oversight, burden reduction, productivity, innovation, rigor, or stewardship.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f3\b\fs42 \cf0 {\listtext	5	}Offer a specific alternative
\f2\b0 : withdraw, narrow, phase in, define terms, require written reasons, preserve scientific peer-review primacy, exempt NIH peer-reviewed research, allow APCs required by public-access policy, etc.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\f3\b\fs42 \cf0 {\listtext	6	}Raise legal or procedural issues clearly
\f2\b0 : statutory conflicts, arbitrary-and-capricious concerns, vagueness, First Amendment/Spending Clause issues, PRA burden, conflicts with NIH public-access requirements, or conflicts with the Public Health Service Act.
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\f3\b\fs42 \cf0 {\listtext	7	}Be timely and non-confidential
\f2\b0 : submit by the deadline and avoid confidential, proprietary, or sensitive information unless the docket provides a protected route.\
\pard\tx720\sl324\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \
\
\
At the bottom, include a brief section on \'93further challenges\'94. Suggest there are more policies that are up for comments now, and link to them. One to highlight is below - use text and links below to describe it briefly.  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs44 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NIH just published {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://nam12.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgrants.nih.gov%2Fgrants%2Fguide%2Fnotice-files%2FNOT-OD-26-086.html&data=05%7C02%7CTor.D.Wager%40dartmouth.edu%7C0018d4934e894fbf422408ded4064eb9%7C995b093648d640e5a31ebf689ec9446f%7C0%7C0%7C639181320755781142%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=8%2FN%2FB0xlpw8o2%2FYIG0%2BiXkYANT508a6A0U2bVHZ9br0%3D&reserved=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 NOT-OD-26-086: Request for Information: Proposal to Cap the Number of Simultaneous Research Project Grants per Principal Investigator to Support More Researchers and Maximize Scientific Productivity and Innovation}} soliciting feedback from the public. The proposed policy requires PIs at the cap (e.g. 2, 3, or 4 simultaneous awards) to relinquish existing award(s) to accept new competing award. More information is provided here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://nam12.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgrants.nih.gov%2Fnews-events%2Fnih-extramural-nexus-news%2F2026%2F06%2Ffeedback-sought-proposal-to-cap-the-number-of-simultaneous-research-project-grants-per-principal-investigator-to-support-more-researchers-and-maximize-scientific-productivity-and-innovation&data=05%7C02%7CTor.D.Wager%40dartmouth.edu%7C0018d4934e894fbf422408ded4064eb9%7C995b093648d640e5a31ebf689ec9446f%7C0%7C0%7C639181320755807790%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=uYFuqtTqN6ojlhEd1%2BurFMLc83CM8qBQOgz8V29z5p0%3D&reserved=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Feedback Sought: Proposal to Cap the Number of Simultaneous Research Project Grants per Principal Investigator to Support More Researchers and Maximize Scientific Productivity and Innovation | Grants & Funding}}.\
\'a0\
}