{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Claude challenge 1 instructions\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Add a challenge to the set.  There will be 2 set challenges. This will be the 1st one.  \
\
This first challenge is called \'93The next step.\'94 Create a page for it and Include a link to it in the overall workshop under the 1st challenge. \
\
Here is intro text.  Use it mainly verbatim, but fact-check it and give me a proposed revision to approve or alter before you finalize and include it:\
\
<Start challenge text>\
Papers are becoming longer and more complex, and many include multiple experiments and techniques. As the array of techniques broadens, many may be less familiar to us if we don\'92t use them in our sub-area.  AI can help us understand both the experiments and techniques underlying scientific papers, and to think creatively about the next steps or experiments in this line of work.\
\
This challenge has two parts.  First, you\'92ll use AI to do a rapid analysis of a recent paper, Livrizzi, Chang-Weinberg et al. 2026 - Top-down control of the descending pain modulatory system drives multimodal placebo analgesia.  Your goal will be to create your own summary of the study and its findings in a format that will allow you to explain the experiments that were done and their major findings. The second part of the challege is to come up with one follow-up experiment that tests an assumption or finding in their work or extends it in a meaningful way. \
\
Consider what kind of summary will be useful beyond the existing abstract, and creative ways of finding meaningful new experiments. What limitations and caveats can AI help you uncover that you wouldn\'92t otherwise have been aware of?  Can AI help you check whether your proposed experiment is new or has been published by someone else already? Can AI help you evaluate the feasibility and logic of your proposed experiment?\
}