{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 We are creating a new github pages site, with the repository at\
  https://github.com/torwager/LoveAtFirstByte.  I would like to serve it from\
  https://torwager.github.io/, and the site should be a marimo book if feasible,\
  or suggest other alternatives like Jupyter Book.  It will contain a series of\
  exercises for students to do using AI.  I would like the home page to be\
  reactive to pointer movement on the home page screen, with cool graphics that\
  track the pointer location. is this possible in github pages and easy to\
  accomplish?  Instructions for the workshop so far are in the document NAPS AI\
  for Academia workshop 2026.txt.\
\
\
Use a workflow to fan out agents to build the site. Make a plan to:\
1 select a notebook framework and set it up\
2 look at the existing plan and research ideas, suggesting improvements and alternatives for a 90-min workshop for graduate students with widely varying backgrounds in AI tool use\
3 create subfolders and pages for the overall plan intro/format and for each challenge idea, and populate them with fleshed-out descriptions and appropriate and aesthetic graphics to go along with them. Come up with appropriate auxiliary materials as well. \
4. Create an intro page with best-in-class tools and models for (a) Beginner AI users, using chat GUIs/apps, and (b) advanced users using Claude Code / Codex / gemini equivalents.  Provide brief descriptions of each platform/model option and its pro/cons, and links to install them/get started. Focus on tools that can be used in the workshop with a free account without paying for a subscription. Note if there are advanced tools with subscription and what the benefits are briefly.\
4 make an appealing, sophisticated landing page with responsive graphics that are really cool\
\
Then execute the plan.\
\
\
}